James (Jimmy) Baldwin & Kaleb (Kumar) Chhabra
Final Project Proposal – CSCI 261 
Instructor – Easton Bornemeier
Methods for Image Manipulation
	We will be creating a program that takes in the raw pixel data from PNGs and performs image processing.
The goal of this project will be to give the program an image in a PNG format and have the pixel data read into 
a vector. Once the raw data exists in the vector a class containing a variety of functions will manipulate the 
8bit values at each pixel in order to create a new vector that will be exported as a new PNG. The class could 
contain an infinite number of image manipulations, however 5 will be our minimum. Possible image processing functions 
will be along the lines of: Gaussian blurring, edge softening, edge sharpening, overlaying, and potentially many more. 

Program Documentation:
	This program is interacted with via a GUI. There is a text box where the user can type the name of the file or 
image they are trying to interpret or modify. There are a total of 10? buttons the user can select to modify the image 
they uploaded to the program. Once one (or more) manipulation types are selected, the user can push the modification 
using the – button. The user can then save the image if they would like, and it will download to the user’s directory. 
There is also a button the user can select to clear the current image that is loaded and bring in a new image. 

Test:
	Test 1: png image of a screen shot of the Minecraft website. All manips work as intended.
	Test 2: file not found. outputs file not found to the console.
	Test 3: Save button works as intended and saves files in the correct filepath.
	Test 4:	Reset button clears the file slate as intended.
	Test 5:	File I/O and txt files generate as expected.
Reflections: 
	We learned a lot about the SFML Library. Building the classes for the buttons and the file input text box was 
a bit o a challenge, but the biggest takeaway for me was learning to read and interpret the documentation available. 
SFML is a vast library with a lot of potential, and in the future, we may need to learn how to use even more complex 
libraries. Knowing how to navigate and problem solve issues that aren’t quick google searches is a valuable skill we 
learned from this project. I think we did a good job of laying out what was needed logistically from the get go, but 
we hope that the knowledge we gained from this admittedly daunting project, will translate to good project building 
skills in the future.
